---
title: Red Team 101
description: Understanding what Read Team assessment is
published: true
date: '2020-07-10T10:21:27.407Z'
tags: null
editor: markdown
---

# Red Team notes

### Introduction

Red Teaming is a full-scope, multi-layered attack simulation designed to measure how well a company’s people and networks, applications and physical security controls can withstand an attack from a real-life adversary. During a red team engagement, highly trained security consultants enact attack scenarios to reveal potential physical, hardware, software and human vulnerabilities. Red team engagements also identify opportunities for bad actors and malicious insiders to compromise company systems and networks or enable data breaches.

## Pentesting vs Redteaming

Pentesting can be defined as assessment of an organization’s security posture which is executed in a controlled fashion and often dictated and managed by the security managers. The given time and scope to finish a project is very limited often not takes real-life adversaries like Social engineering, Malware execution, etc into consideration. In Pentesting, generally you don’t move beyond exploitation phase. If you get a shell access on the remote machine while performing a Pentest, most of the times the client doesn’t want you to go ahead further and stop it right there. If you are given a range of internal/external IP addresses or multiple web application, you have to try to find vulnerabilities in all of them. You can’t miss anyone of them.

When a real attacker wants to break into an organization, He/She won’t be going through the traditional Pentesting process and methodology. The attacker would try everything he can to get into the organization and exfiltrate the data or destroy the reputation of an organization. He may plan it for weeks or even months before attempting to get inside by any means. That’s the difference between traditional Pentesting and red teaming.

Red teams act as real and motivated attackers. Most of the times, Red Teaming scope is huge. The entire environment is within scope and their goal is to penetrate, maintain persistence, pivot, exfil, to examine what a determined enemy can do. All tactics are available including social engineering. Eventually the red team will get to a point where they own the entire network, or their actions will be caught and they will be stopped by the security administrators of the network they are attacking. At that time they will report their findings to management in order to assist in the increasing the security of the network.

One of the major goals of the red team is to maintain stealth even when they have gotten inside of an organization. Penetration testers are lousy and loud on the network and can be easily detected because of their traditional approach towards breaking into an organization while red teamers are stealthy, fast and are technically equipped with the knowledge of evading AV’s, Endpoint protection solutions, Firewalls and other security measures that the organization has implemented.

The skillset and the approach required for red teaming is completely different as from Pentesting.

## What we do as a Redteam?

It could be broadly divided into these categories.

* Reconnaissance – Gathering information about employees, Managers, Technology stack, Security appliances, etc using passive and active recon techniques
* Physical security -Physically mapping the building, Bypassing or cloning RFID/Biometrics, Lock picking, etc
* Social Engineering – Malware delivery/Credentials logging via targeted phishing, Gaining entry to the building/ODC, Fake surveys, Planting network implants, Dumpster diving, etc
* Exploitation – Payload delivery & execution, Stealthy C&C server communication
* Persistence – Privilege Escalation, Maintaining persistence & Pivoting
* Post-Exploitation – Lateral movement & Data exfiltration

